(Episode 12)
My dad was diagnosed with Alzheimer's...
two years ago.
He got out of Syria and was diagnosed in Turkey.
He hid it.
Do you think he didn't want to return?
Maybe he didn't want to be a burden.
As his condition worsened, he started to lose his way.
The rebels caught him.
They released him for being a doctor...
But everyone found out.
We got a call...
to pick him up.
That was when...
the real battle began.
I think my dad's memory...
is frozen to when he was in the rebel camp.
Maybe Seoul felt like a huge base.
He never stopped...
trying to escape.
Dad.
Dad!
I must get away.
I was studying for my exams, working the night shift,
and playing hide and seek...
with my dad every single day.
It's okay now, Dad.
He's flat-lining.
Oxygen. Defibrillator.
Clear!
Hurry.
Then I messed up.
I made a mistake that no fellow,
not even an intern does.
Do you call yourself a doctor?
Not even an intern makes that mistake.
Remember this.
That patient died because of you.
You're no doctor.
That's when...
my left hand became useless.
Whenever my dad's lucid, he asks me...
for some morphine.
So he can die.
Isn't that funny?
A doctor dad wants...
his doctor son to kill him.
My dad's the reason...
I didn't stop Mr. Seol.
I couldn't.
I didn't want to stop him.
Even if it's not Alzheimer's like my dad,
an illness can take over the patient's psyche, can't it?
Mr. Seol wants to...
keep his pride intact.
He wants to die...
a dignified and decent death.
Maybe that's better.
Maybe that's better than living an extended life...
with a crushed self like my dad.
You're right.
Maybe I do lack...
the right to be a doctor.
(Orthopedic Surgery)
What happened?
Have you still not persuaded Mr. Seol?
- Not yet. - He was discharged a while ago.
What if you wait too long and miss the opportunity?
It can't be helped. Don't be too upset.
You'll get plenty of shots at...
completing your paper in the future.
It's me. Is the offer...
still on the table?
(Staff members only)
Who was it?
Eun Jae's getting more and more amusing.
Thank you.
- Take care. - Bye.
Hello?
You're whom?
I'm here.
Mr. Seol. Mr. Seol.
Mr. Seol.
Do you know where you are?
Who...
Doctor Kwak brought you in.
He went out to make a call.
Thank you.
I had a terrible stomach ache.
I feel better now.
I think I'll be able to...
Will you discharge yourself?
Yes.
This is just a temporary solution.
Without any treatment...
Things will only get worse.
- So... - In November...
I will publish a book of poems.
I'm a few poems short, and I need to...
keep writing.
Mr. Seol.
I've been writing a column for over 10 years.
I can't suddenly stop.
That's no way to treat my readers.
What's most important...
is the upcoming autumn picnic with the kids.
It's six months.
You may love to teach and write,
but you can only do that for six more months.
- If you're unlucky... - Three months.
I'll have three months.
That's a long time.
If I were to die on the table,
I can't even dream about it anymore.
He wants to leave.
As soon as possible.
He must catch the first boat...
to make it to class in time.
Are you still...
reluctant to persuade him?
I'm not saying his dignity isn't important.
But...
is that more important than his life?
It's the same blue sky and blue sea,
but it's not like yesterday's.
It's so very different.
If I were a doctor,
if I'm to have the right,
I shouldn't be leaving with you.
If I can't persuade you, I must abduct you...
and get you into the OR.
Hyun.
A doctor fights instead of giving in.
Death is a failure.
Whatever people say,
death is a failure.
That's why a doctor, if I were a doctor,
I shouldn't accept failure so readily.
I shouldn't give in. I must fight.
Why do you think death is a failure?
Death comes to everyone equally when the time comes.
Why is that a failure?
Death is a conclusion, not a failure.
That's just the conclusion I chose.
I can't say I'm not scared at all,
but I'm okay.
My wife...
has been waiting for me for 10 years.
She's shy and has trouble making friends.
She must be so lonely.
I want to...
go and see her.
I'm really sorry.
And thanks.
Your eyes.
Your eyes always look at me, worry about me,
and at times, hurt more for me.
Because of those eyes, I didn't feel like I was sick.
You know,
I think...
those eyes of yours,
and the intensity with which you empathize with patients...
will be the best medical treatment...
that you can provide to patients.
[VIU Ver] Episode 12 Hospital Ship "Death is a Conclusion"
-= Ruo Xi =-
Every day, When the sun sets, I walk to the trees.
Every day, When the sun sets, I walk to the river.
Every day, When the sun sets, I walk to the mountain.
Get it.
It is beautiful
- To walk to the trees, mountain, - Got it!
- And river when the sun sets. - She caught it.
When the sun sets, I long for my love,
And walk toward my love.
Nothing in this world is more beautiful than that.
What are you doing?
Is that a poetry book? Do you read poems often?
It's been 14 years and 8 months.
I see they're all Mr. Seol's poems.
Someone said...
if I want to persuade someone,
I must understand him first.
- What do you think? - It's moving.
But it isn't more moving than a life.
- Where are you going? - I told you.
It isn't more moving than a life.
Leave him alone.
No, I can't do that.
Why do you want to operate so badly?
Why are you so obsessed?
Does a doctor need a reason to save a patient's life?
No, there's another reason.
What do you want me to say? Aren't you sick of this yet?
- You have another reason. - Fine, I'm selfish.
I'm selfish, and I'm obsessed with returning to Seoul.
- I'm trying to fill my thesis... - Stop lying.
If the thesis...
was so important, why did you offer it to Dr. Kim Do Hoon?
I heard you said if he lets you operate,
and gives you the best staff possible,
he could keep your thesis.
Why are you willing to go so far to operate?
My mom died...
because I wasn't there.
But I'm here for that patient.
She could've lived.
She could've lived, but I...
But I cut off the opportunity...
for my mom to live.
I won't repeat that.
The patient is still alive,
and as long as he's alive, there's hope.
So I can't give up. No, I won't.
If I give up, I...
It isn't your fault.
Mr. Seol asked me to bring this to you.
What is it?
He's donating his body.
He wants to donate it to you.
He says he's sorry for not getting the surgery,
but that he wants to contribute to the research.
Mr. Seol Jae Chan said...
death...
is not a failure, but a conclusion.
What do you think?
I'm not sure yet.
It's too difficult a problem.
It's also a question...
we'll keep facing as long as we are doctors.
Baby shark
Cute
In the ocean
Baby shark
Mommy shark
They're dancing
Good.
- Goodness. - Hello.
Thank you for coming all the way here.
Gosh.
- We should've gone... - Thank you.
- to the center. - Okay.
But his knee is too weak.
It hurts.
Does it hurt a lot?
I'll give you some medicine.
(Hospital Ship: On-land Clinic)
Okay.
- Hello, everyone! - Hello.
Long time no see.
- Hello. - Are you okay?
- Careful. - Hi there.
- Have you eaten? - Hello.
- Take your time. - Hello.
Walk slowly.
Exhale.
- So... - Okay then.
When did it start?
- Here you go. - Thank you.
- Drink it up. - Thank you.
This way.
- Hi. It's someone I know. - Hello.
- Why are you here? - My back hurts.
- How did you hurt it? - How about some entertainment?
Please welcome our singer, Yoo Ah Rim!
1, 2, 3, 4.
What's wrong with my age
There's no age in love
- Ma'am. - What?
- Remember to take your medicine. - Okay.
- You too, okay? - Okay.
Hello, Dr. Song?
The wrong bag?
Yes. If there's anyone who isn't busy right now...
Never mind. I'll go there.
Doctor, we're going on a picnic.
They said we can use the entire bus.
We're going to take this all the way to Seoul.
Lucky you.
You're going on the picnic as planned.
How do you feel?
Dr. Kwak comes frequently to take care of me.
No, I'm already on the bus.
Yes, I'm on my way.
Mr. Chu left already.
Dr. Song.
What's going on?
Dr. Song. Dr. Song!
Hurry. Please hurry.
Run.
- Hurry. - Run.
- This way. - Over there.
Come out. It's okay.
It's okay.
Dr. Song, please take her.
Okay. It's okay.
Oh my gosh.
- Mommy. - It's okay.
- Oh no. - What's going on?
- Where does it hurt? - Here.
Take a deep breath.
Good.
Okay. Hang in there.
Where does it hurt?
You'll be okay.
- Mr. Seol. Are you okay? - Hey.
Yes, I'm fine. Go treat the kids.
Go on. Hurry.
Dr. Song.
- Where's the chopper? - 30 minutes away.
A boat is an hour away.
The triage is almost complete.
Luckily, there aren't many in critical condition.
Ah Rim, please give 578 a neck brace.
- Yes, doctor. - Dr. Kwak...
What's wrong? What is it?
It's nothing. I think it's dislocated.
We need to pop it back in.
Listen to patient 23 first.
He's struggling to breathe. Hopefully, it isn't pneumothorax.
(Pneumothorax: collapsed lung)
Go on.
Let me look at your arm.
Treat the patients first.
You're a patient too right now.
If you lose circulation in your arm,
you may even lose use of your arm.
Don't you trust me?
- Have you done it before? - Many times.
- Then... - It'll hurt.
I said I've done it many times.
Oh my gosh.
Over here!
- Come here! - Okay.
- Careful. - Over here.
Where does it hurt?
Sir.
I feel like my insides are all jumbled.
I feel like vomiting.
- Doctor. - Here.
Doctor. Your arm...
Let's lay you down slowly. Help me.
Hold on.
- Here. - Let me.
Help me.
It's okay. Let me see your mouth.
Milk.
Check every bag and see if there's any milk.
Okay.
There.
- Unbutton his shirt. - Okay.
Oh my gosh!
Captain.
What?
What's wrong with my stomach?
What happened? Is there a problem?
Yes.
Is it serious?
I can't say it isn't.
Doctor.
Then will I die?
Will I?
No, you will not. Saline.
Saving patients is what we doctors do.
Right?
Sir. You are extremely lucky.
You're with a top surgeon. Take a deep breath.
Okay, shall we begin.
How can I help?
We'll make an abdominal silo. Do you know what I mean?
Let's begin.
Hang in there.
Here, doctor.
- Hold the gauze. - Okay.
Let's tape it down.
Hang in there.
One more.
Give him fluids, and move him on the first transport.
Okay.
Hey! Come over here, and help!
Have you seen San?
I can't find San.
Hurry. That way.
Hyuk.
- Yes? - He's not here. San isn't here.
- San isn't here? - No.
San. Kang San!
San.
No!
(Thank you, Mr. Kim Yong Taek, for letting us use your poem.)